docs: extract charm from testing context (#2084)
canonical/operator: docs/howto/write-unit-tests-for-a-charm.md

If you use pytest, you should put the `my_charm` fixture in a top level `conftest.py`, as it will likely be shared between all your unit tests.
```

> ## Test a function that receives charm as an argument

Reviewer: I'd shorten to:
```suggestion
## Test a function that takes a charm instance
```

> A function might take in charm as an argument to extract charm state or charm relation information. To test such functions, you can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A function might take the charm as a parameter to extract charm state or charm relation information. To test such functions, you can use
```

> the following method to test the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `testing.Context` instance as a context manager, and then access `mgr.charm`. You should generally use an event the charm doesn't observe, for example, `update_status`:
```

```python
# Example function to test that takes the charm as an argument

> def get_num_relation(my_charm):
>     return len(self.model.relations.get("my-relation", []))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
def get_relations_count(charm_instance: MyCharm):
    return len(charm_instance.model.relations.get("my-relation", []))
```

> def get_relations_count(charm_instance: MyCharm):
>     return len(charm_instance.model.relations.get("my-relation", []))

Reviewer: I don't see a good reason for the `_instance` suffix. How about:
```suggestion
def get_relations_count(charm: MyCharm):
    return len(charm.model.relations.get("my-relation", []))
```

# Test for the function that takes the charm as an argument

> def test_get_num_relation():

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is not actually relevant.

> def test_get_num_relation():

Reviewer: Consistency with naming above:
```suggestion
def test_get_relations_count():
```

    ctx = testing.Context(my_charm)
    state_in = testing.State(relations=[])
    with ctx(ctx.on.update_status(), state_in) as mgr: # use any hook event here

>         result = takes_charm_as_argument(my_charm=mgr.charm)

Reviewer 2: Here, it's unclear why the reference to the charm class is being gotten from `mgr.charm` when it's available as `my_charm` at the start of test function body.

How about this example is split into two functions:
- a pytest.fixture that internally uses the charm type and returns a Context ready to be used
- a test function that only receives the Context and thus has a reason to look up the charm type through the Context or Manager.

Author: > Which also means we'd have to document the exact "point in time" or charm object state that the test would find mgr.charm in.

That would be great - the purpose of this recipe is to just take the "state" of the charm (integrations, storages, configurations, ...etc) and see if a smaller handler for a particular "state" is able to pick up the state as intended and is able to operate on it.

>         result = takes_charm_as_argument(my_charm=mgr.charm)

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be `get_relations_count` to match the above? Also let's drop the keyword arg (it's wrong in any case):
```suggestion
        result = get_relations_count(mgr.charm)
```

Author: Thanks for the feedback, reflected all the comments!
